Emergency response time plays a crucial role in saving lives and minimizing damage during critical situations such as medical emergencies, fire accidents, and natural disasters.
Traditional navigation systems may not always provide the most optimized routes for emergency vehicles, especially in congested urban areas. This project, Emergency Route 
Optimization, focuses on identifying the shortest and most efficient path between a source and a destination using OpenStreetMap (OSM) data and routing algorithms.The system 
takes a starting and ending location as input and generates the optimized route, which is then displayed on an interactive map in the browser. By leveraging real-world map data 
and advanced pathfinding techniques, the project ensures accurate, reliable, and visually clear directions for emergency responders.

The solution not only improves travel time but also enhances decision-making in critical scenarios where every second counts. Future enhancements include integrating real-time 
traffic data, GPS tracking, and predictive AI models for advanced disaster management. Ultimately, this project demonstrates a practical application of route optimization 
technology to support emergency services and improve public safety.

Features
Uses OpenStreetMap (OSM) data and OSRM (Open Source Routing Machine) for pathfinding.
Displays results on an interactive map in the browser.
Helps emergency vehicles (ambulance, fire, police) reach their destination quickly.
Modular design for easy updates and integration with other systems.

Installation
Clone the repository:
git clone https://github.com/Mithra1311/Emergency-Route-Optimization.git
cd Emergency-Route-Optimization


Install dependencies:
pip install -r requirements.txt

How to Run
Run the main script:
python main.py

Open your browser and view the interactive route output.

Future Improvements
Real-time traffic data integration for more accurate route optimization.
Support for multiple emergency vehicles with priority routing.
Mobile app version for on-the-go usage.
Integration with Google Maps API and live GPS tracking.
Advanced AI models for predictive route planning during disasters.
